In the face of an unprecedented virus - Covid-19 - our school went fully online, and our club with it. Unable to work on a robot, we dedicated this year to outreach, branding, and online competitions held by FIRST®.

 

## Game Design:
In 2021, FIRST® decided that with the possibility of normal robotics competitions becoming superspreader events, it would be safer to hold online ones instead. As the normal competition structure was not possible online, they had to devise new ways for teams to demonstrate their technical expertise. One of the things they came up with was the Game Design challenge. This challenge required our team to create the rules for a possible robotics game - the type that had been held in years prior (an example from 2016’s game can be found [here](https://youtu.be/VqOKzoHJDjA)).

In our team’s concept, called Back to School, robots had to pick up ‘keys’, exchange them with human players for ‘books’ and then decide between two scoring options. The first, called the ‘backpack’, was a large box that required pulling on a large zipper to open. This was the higher scoring option, worth four match points. The second option was a large desk that robots could stack the ‘books’ on top of. This netted two match points per book, but robots would gain a special ranking point if they managed to stack five ‘books’ on top of it.

 

Ranking points have been a concept in FRC for a while now - and they are what actually determines which team wins the game. One or two is usually given out for having the highest match score, another if a team manages to get a certain number of robots to lift themselves off the ground, and the last is usually reserved for some sort of special task (ex: spinning a wheel to land on a certain color).

Our team’s full submission can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NvAhUWoaVi4VcxMqkz1Fm6fDHMhd3az_CJe_gDmSSo0/edit?usp=sharing).